put yourself there put yourself in that
imagined place of being like completely
[__] recklessly
enthusiastic did that increase your
presence or decrease your presence when
you take all the bracing
out that's
bracing in this coaching session we're
going to deal with something that a lot
of people are haunted by them thinking
that the other shoe is about to fall the
session was done during a live Q&A where
people from the public can raise her
hand and have a coaching session with me
if you pay attention I'm sure you're
going to get a ton out of it let's say
the last several years I was in a very
kind of stuck feeling situation
professionally and even though I enjoyed
a lot of the work I did I constantly had
this sort of anxious braced way of going
about it and now I've gone and created
my own company I feel great really
increasingly empowered about it and I
notice
um that that whole flip side of you know
anxiety excitement uh I have a lot of
excitement and still a lot of
bracing so what what's the
question questions like how do I move
forward or what do I
do about
what uh about
this
T also this bodily tension this bracing
that I'm still
doing so so show me the
bracing
yeah yeah show it yeah
and then show me the opposite of
bracing so it's this place you're not
going to get anything done
from it's that as I'm working I'm
constantly just in the other one right
you said you said that if you stop
bracing you're not going to get anything
done feel like I'll be bouncing all over
the place but that opposite of bracing
that just happened wasn't
bouncing no I'm I'm a bit settled right
now I
suppose comp try again yeah a brace for
me and now do the opposite of
bracing I mean the presence that you're
showing now definitely says to me you'll
get more done here than bracing more
energy so how does the
bouncing what what what's actually
happening with the bouncing since it's
not the since it's not the opposite of
bracing there's this feeling of trying
to to rush you know just a moment ago
you're you're not getting what I'm
saying Joe and I want to push you there
I want to you know move the mouse cursor
on my computer faster than it reasonably
goes to click the thing because I know
the next steps and I want it done that's
the that's the
thing how is it seems like that's what
happens when you
brace yeah that's that's like what leads
to the bracing or the the tensing yeah
but when you do the opposite of
bracing you just did it
again so then what's the bouncing off of
walls thing The Bouncing Off the Wall
seems to be bracing for an extended
period of time
I I get I I get I get just to be clear I
get the idea that like oh if I stop
bracing that I'm gonna be
like like I get the idea I I know I know
how that thought process
occurs
right yeah so we'll do one more
experiment just to help you put yourself
there put yourself in that imagined
place of being like completely
[__] recklessly
enthusiastic and unfocused and just like
running
around yeah just like imagine
it and now take all the bracing out of
it did that increase your presence or
decrease your presence when you take all
the bracing out
that's
bracing I just watched you do it you
were you were kind of doing this thing
you were not bracing you got more in
your body you're like and then you went
and then like the your jaw shut down
you yeah
there's yeah there's a a a
self-consciousness
yeah right the bracing takes you out of
presence even if you're
excited it takes you it makes you more
in the
excitement I get the story that the mind
tells I'm just wanting to show you what
the body actually
does and it's a really natural thing
when we stop wanting to like the bracing
is the controlling of an emotional
experience
and we tell ourselves if we stop
controlling we'll be way out of
control and it's odd to figure out that
what actually happens is that we become
more
present yeah I'll be rejected or or too
much or that's right
unproductive
yeah right and you can see it really
easily like if you're having a
conversation with somebody
you start bracing you'll start losing
connection how do I stop doing it when
I'm not it's like how do I be more
mindful Joe no you just stopped doing
you just did it you just showed me you
just did it but it keeps
happening yeah that's that's how life
goes but I don't want
that the way you do it is you just
notice that when you're in pain it's all
you have to
do if you tell yourself to stop bracing
it'll be a very very slow process it'll
work it'll just be very very
slow if you're like oh I'm in pain oh I
don't need to be I can and your body
relaxes that's all if you're like I'm in
pain [__] I [__] embracing again
Jesus Christ why do I keep doing that
but it'll be very slow but if it's just
like oh
just like you're doing right
here so then the question is like how do
you keep it in top of mind and
you posters on the wall Yap app whatever
you have to do to just like remind
yourself of the question what am I
bracing for is really ask yourself that
10 times a day and it'll be done in
short
order which is the question what are you
bracing for
look look at that it just immediately
took away the
bracing how to hold it all together
Joe who else is gonna do
it and that's the thing is like when you
brace your identity gets harder you're
more
needed and when you ask what am I
bracing for the identity is like oh [__]
I'm not needed
[Laughter]
here
great of when I'm not needed not